# Hack Back

### Definition
Hacking typically violates criminal law in all parts of the world, however, the newly termed ‘hack back’ or ‘Active Defense’ has emerged since around 2017. The term ‘hack back’ refers to the perspective that Governments, corporations from the private and public sector that are victims of hacker attacks should be allowed to move beyond active defense in order to ‘hack back’ their attacker to identify, track, retrieve data or finances or disable and damage the attackers infrastructure (Lindsey, 2019) (Bloch et al., 2018, 8-11). 
As technology is still outpacing any effort surrounding defense in depth, the ‘hack back’ or ‘Active Defense’ approach is an effort to allow Governments and large corporations to take their defense into their own hands and actively defend their systems and data against further attacks. It leads to compensate for lack of Government resources and legal frameworks to fill the gap and speed up response to time sensitive and extensive cyber attacks (Caldwell & Curran, 2020, 957-961). Problems this perspective faces allow for a use of the grey area of the law in which this model lies, which could present unknown collateral damage for both victim and perpetrator and any fallout of innocents caught in the firing line along with potential escalation of conflict (Lemay & Leblanc, 2021, 239). 
### Current State 
The Active Cyber Defense Certainty Act, put forward in the US 2019 allows certain provisions that allow more defensive ‘hack back’ methods such as the use of beacons to track and monitor data lost in a breach for example and for certain purposes like to disrupt unauthorised activity and monitor behaviours (Lindsey, 2019). Liability falls upon the the organisations for any unintended damage to innocents and is restricted to US, however, this would not limit routing servers through obscured locations making the origin of the crime difficult to pin point (Bloch et al., 2018, 8-11). 
All though ‘Active Defence’ has gained popularity as a potential security model to mend any regulatory gaps and support from Government defense there is currently no legal protections for entities looking to ‘hack back’, this would be considered a criminal activity and all though the law varies worldwide, hacking or unauthorised access to a computer is illegal and considered an engagement in vigilantism (Caldwell & Curran, 2020, 957-961) (Badhwar, 2021). 
### Discussion 
Recommendations for engagement in ‘Active Defense’ or ‘Hack Back’ methodology would be well advised against the high risk nature of this seemingly proactive security measure. Focusing on defense in depth, zero trust, vulnerability patches and training cybersecurity awareness and technical sckills into employees would be highly rewarding in the long term (Badhwar, 2021). 
Yes it could be argued that entities have a right to self defense, however, this does should extend to ‘hack back’. Unauthorized access of a computer is still considered a criminal activity, the legal liability is both relevant for hackers and those considering to ‘hack back’. The US DOJ in ‘Best Practices for Victim Response and Reporting of Cyber Incidents’ recommends that affected entities “Do not hack into or damage another network.” (Badhwar, 2021). 
‘Active Defense’ should only be considered under supervision from law enforcement by qualified defenders provided the crime can be accurately identified (a difficult task due to sophisticated obfuscation techniques (Bloch et al., 2018, 8-11)) and lies within appropriate legal and ethical frameworks. Considering only 20% of Australian breaches in 2017 were detected by internal organisation security teams, this again begs the question if independent corporations are equipped to proceed with a successful ‘hack back’ without collateral damage (Bloch et al., 2018, 8-11). 
In conclusion, all though a tempting and proactive method, ‘hack back’ or ‘Active Defensive’ fall short as a safe and long lasting method of protection both technically, legally and morally, the collateral risk too great and the reach of the fall out unpredictable. Corporations should instead focus on  defense in depth models. 

### References
Badhwar, R. (2021). The CISO’s Transformation: Security Leadership in a High Threat Landscape. Springer International Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-81412-0_23
Bloch, V., Peach, S., & Peake, L. (2018, December). The Hack Back: The Legality of Retaliatory Hacking. Communications Law Bulletin, 37(4). http://www5.austlii.edu.au/au/journals/CommsLawB/2018/38.pdf
Caldwell, A., & Curran, K. (2020). A Critique of Active Defense or 'Hack Back'. International Journal for Information Security Research, 10(1), 957-961. https://infonomics-society.org/wp-content/uploads/A-Critique-of-Active-Defense-or-Hack-Back.pdf
Lemay, A., & Leblanc, S. (2021, June). Is Hacking Back Ever Worth it? ECCWS 2021 20th European Conference on Cyber Warfare and Security, 239.
Lindsey, N. (2019, July 10). Return of the “Hack Back” Active Cyber Defense Bill Has Cybersecurity Experts Worried. CPO Magazine. Retrieved January 16, 2024, from https://www.cpomagazine.com/cyber-security/return-of-the-hack-back-active-cyber-defense-bill-has-cybersecurity-experts-worried/
